<!-- :ai:mit-ocw: -->
# AI 101
> With the right data and the right model, AI can solve many problems. But choosing the problem, finding the data, and
> training the model is actually difficult part.

- All AI today are narrow forms of artificial intelligence
- Methods of implementing AI
  - Expert systems (if/else statements)
  - Tree search (state tree)
  - **Machine learning** (learning from data)

# When to learn from machine learning
- Classification: Given an input, output the class of the input
- Clustering: Given an input, output a groups of similarities in the data
- Regression: Given an input, output a prediction

# Types of learning
- Supervised learning: Training data, compare to known answer, repeat
- Unsupervised learning: Unknown data, this method gathers information about the data
- Reinforcement learning: Aiming to reward a type of behavior. The correct answer is not provided, but the goal is known

# 7 Steps Of Training An Algorithm
1. Define a problem: Is the picture a cat or a dog?
   - This step is _extremely_ important. AI cannot solve all your problems
2. Find the data: A shit ton of labeled pictures of cats and dogs
3. Clean data: Make sure the data is good, clean, and representative
   - 80% of data science and machine learning
4. Choose a model
   - How do you want to represent the data
   - In other words, select the features of the data
5. Train the model
6. Test the model
7. Deploy the model

# 4 Questions You Should Ask Any AI You Encounter
1. What is the goal?
2. What is the training data?
3. What model is being used?
4. What is the accuracy when tested on new data (testing)?

# References
- [AI 101](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/res-6-013-ai-101-fall-2021/)
